I have selected Simplicity as the XP core value.

Week 1

We discussed and identified the core functionalities of the Shopping cart problem such as Product catalog, Shopping cart, User sessions.
Divided the problem areas among the team.
Discussed on the approach to build proof of concepts with minimum and maximum expectations based on the problems functionality.

Week 2

We communicated on the progress made and discussed on the common architecture such as application node, UI node, and task node. 
Also discussed on the requirement of message passing between the micro-services.

Created issues pertaining to requirement of coming up with system and subsystem design. This would help in identifying common areas 
and basic components.

Added High Level architecture design for User activity logging Subsystem.

Week 3
Discussed on the data modelling for the user activity log module.
Install Cassandra and created cluster. Developed sample cassandra application and added to git.
Started working on identifying application workflow.

Week 4
Discussed on the applicatiom workflow with the team.
Progessed on the hign level architecture of user level activity log.
Creted new brach for user activity module

Week 5

Discussed on the access patterns for the application to identify query patterns for the application.
Came up with draft of the application data flow and mapped query patterns to it. This will give clear picture to the team to 
develop essential Rest end points.

Week 6

Team is making progress on modelling and building the application based on the proposed application data flow and 
application pattern queries. We met this week and added to the data model and patterns to limit the number of queries. This will help the team
to build modules to support essential queries.

Week 7
Team discussed on endpoints and common interfaces. We discussed on the UI part and started working on it with keeping the event 
generation logic under the common interface. This should help in making the development easier to implement and uniform.

Week 8
Team started testing integration of basic services to complete one worflow from end to end, this way we can build the system in a organized
way and easy to test and document.


